id: fema-citizenship
title: Qualifying for FEMA Disaster Assistance: Citizenship and Immigration Status Requirements
publisher: Federal Emergency Management Agency
url: https://www.fema.gov/assistance/individual/program/citizenship-immigration-status
lang: en
last_updated: June 26, 2026
browser_sha256: 4de4ae0345d81a98d0692a5c0397ace0a697f555783d43b8d80189082b691f5a
---
FEMA, along with the state, territorial or tribal government, may provide money and direct services to survivors affected by Presidentially declared disaster. To be eligible, survivors must be U.S. citizens, non-citizen nationals and qualified aliens.
Disaster assistance may include money for temporary housing needs, repairs to owner-occupied homes, personal property loss, medical expenses, funeral expenses, and other serious disaster-related needs or expenses not covered by insurance or other means.
Definitions
U.S. Citizen
Anyone born in the U.S.; a person born outside of the U.S. to at least one U.S. parent; or a naturalized citizen.
Non-citizen National
A person born in an outlying possession of the U.S. (e.g., American Samoa or Swain’s Island) on or after the date the U.S. acquired the possession, or
A person born outside of the U.S. and outlying possessions whose parents are U.S. non-citizen nationals.
A Qualified Alien Includes
Legal Permanent Residents (“Green Card” holders)
Aliens granted asylum
Refugees
Aliens whose deportation status is being withheld
Aliens paroled into the U.S. for at least one year for urgent humanitarian purposes or significant public benefit
Cuban/Haitian entrants
Certain battered aliens or their spouses or children
Certain victims of a severe form of human trafficking, including persons with a “T” or “U” visa
Legal residents in accordance with the Compacts of Free Association with the Federated States of Micronesia, Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau
If an applicant does not meet the citizenship or immigration status at the time of applications, the household may still apply for certain forms of federal assistance if:
The parent or legal guardian of a minor child who is a U.S. citizen or qualified alien applies for assistance on behalf of the minor child, so long as they live in the same household. The parent or legal guardian must apply as the co-applicant, and the minor child must be under 18 at the time disaster occurred.
Resources for Help
Individuals should consult an immigration expert to verify if they meet the immigration status requirements for FEMA disaster assistance.
Additionally, voluntary agencies provide help regardless of citizenship or immigration status.
All individuals, regardless of citizenship and immigration status, affected by a major disaster may be eligible for crisis counseling assistance, disaster legal services, disaster case management, disaster supplemental nutrition assistance program and other non-monetary, in-kind emergency disaster-relief programs. These include medical care, shelter, food and water.
Visit the Voluntary Organizations page for more information.
Last updated June 26, 2026
Return to top
