id: fema-appeals
title: Disagreeing with FEMA's Decision
publisher: Federal Emergency Management Agency
url: https://www.fema.gov/assistance/individual/after-applying/appeals
lang: en
last_updated: June 26, 2026
browser_sha256: cfdf81847a0026c4fa84cf64671508d67fbe1977a2c3749b73893a604af1d664
---
Once FEMA has reviewed your application, the results of the inspection and/or documentation submitted, you will get a letter explaining:
Whether you are approved for assistance
How much assistance you will receive
How the assistance must be used
How to appeal FEMA’s decision if you do not agree with it
The letter will be sent to you by email or mail based on your preference selected when you completed your application.
If you disagree with FEMA’s decision, you may appeal within 60 days of the date of the letter.
Documents to Include in Your Appeal
If you choose to appeal FEMA’s decision, the letter from FEMA will provide additional information on the types of documents or information needed.
The documents apply specifically to the decision made. For example, if you are appealing for additional assistance to help repair your home, you will want to provide FEMA with any receipts, bills or repair estimates received for the repairs needed to your home as a result of the disaster.
At the end of your letter, look for an appeal form that can be used to send us additional information about your situation. You may also download the appeal form.
This form can help make sure you have the information FEMA needs and gives you a space to explain any important context why you need help. If it's easier to just write us a letter, that's fine too. Sending an appeal form or letter with your additional information is optional.
When submitting any documentation or information to FEMA, you must include your FEMA application number and disaster number on every page.
Ways to Submit Your Appeal Documents
You can submit your appeal documents online, in person, by mail or by fax.
If you choose to have a third party submit an appeal on your behalf, include a statement signed by you, authorizing the third party to appeal a decision on your behalf, unless those documents are already on file.
Online
If you set up an online account, appeals can be managed through this account. Visit DisasterAssistance.gov, log into your account and to upload all supporting documents using the Correspondence "Upload Center."
In Person
You can take your appeal documentation to a Disaster Recovery Center.
By Mail
Mail your appeal documents to:
FEMA - Individuals & Households Program National Processing Service Center
P.O. Box 10055
Hyattsville, MD 20782-8055
By Fax
Fax your appeal documents to:
(800) 827-8112
Attention: FEMA - Individuals & Households Program
After Submitting Your Appeal
All appeals are reviewed. Decisions usually are made within 30 days of receiving the appeal, however, it may take up to 90 days for a decision. Additional information may be requested from you if FEMA does not have enough information to make a decision.
You will be notified in writing of the response to your appeal, either by mail or via the DisasterAssistance.gov account you created when you applied with FEMA.
If you have questions regarding your letter or how to file an appeal, call the FEMA Helpline at 1-800-621-3362. If you use video relay service (VRS), captioned telephone service or others, give FEMA your number for that service.
Individuals and Households Program Debt Collection (Recoupment) Appeal
If you received a Notice of Potential Debt letter, it is important to read the letter carefully.
You may appeal the decision in writing and request a hearing within 60 days from the date of receiving the debt letter. Oral hearings are scheduled when FEMA determines that the question of the debt cannot be resolved solely by review of paper file.
A hearing is an opportunity to present relevant evidence (e.g., testimony or additional documents) to support your claim.
Visit the Individuals and Households Program Debt Collection (Recoupment) Appeal Hearings page to learn more about the process.
Last updated June 26, 2026
Return to top
